Beta-lactam antibiotics treat a variety of bacterial infections.
They prevent the growth of bacteria by damaging the cell wall,
bacteria's strongest protection from the environment.
Bacteria are everywhere.
Some can be good bacteria,
but infections can occur when large amounts of any type of bacteria
sneak past the body's natural defenses and multiply.
Bacteria multiply by growing and splitting in half.
One of the last steps in this process
is sealing off the opening in the cell wall.
Beta-lactam antibiotics have a commonly shaped
structural piece called the Beta-lactam ring.
Which allows these drugs to bind proteins
and in turn prevent the formation of a cell wall.
Beta-lactam antibiotics attach to and inactivate
enzymes in the bacterial cell membrane.
This interferes with how bacteria form their cell wall,
which stops bacteria from growing and multiplying.